Upgrade to Keep on latest version (#5781)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/versionless-cloud.md

---
title: "Upgrade to \"Keep on latest version\" in dbt Cloud"
sidebar_label: "Upgrade to \"Keep on latest version\" "
description: "Learn how to go versionless in dbt Cloud. You never have to perform an upgrade again. Plus, you'll be able to access new features and enhancements as soon as they become available. "
---

dbt Cloud is going versionless. Soon, your environments and jobs will always run on the latest version of dbt.

> This will require you to make one final update to your current jobs and environments. When that's done, you never have to think about managing, coordinating, or upgrading dbt versions again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will require you to make one final update to your current jobs and environments. When that's done, you'll never have to think about managing, coordinating, or upgrading dbt versions again.
```

Move your environments and jobs to "Keep on latest version" to get all the functionality in the latest versions of dbt Core &mdash; and more! &mdash; along with access to the new features and fixes as soon as they’re released.

## Tips for upgrading {#upgrade-tips}

> If you regularly develop in dbt Cloud and this is your first time trying “Keep on latest version,” dbt Labs recommends that you start by [overriding your dbt version in development](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#override-dbt-version). Then, launch the IDE or Cloud CLI and do your development work as usual. Everything should work as you expect. If you experience anything working differently than from how you’d expect, run a few models in development to ensure everything is looking as you’d expect.

Reviewer: Hiya @nghi-ly 

This is a non-blocker, but do you think it would be worthwhile giving a small explanation as to why we recommend new users to override their dbt version?

Kind Regards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you regularly develop your dbt project in dbt Cloud and this is your first time trying “Keep on latest version,” dbt Labs recommends that you start in development because it will be the fastest for investigation and iteration. [Override your dbt version in development](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#override-dbt-version). Then, launch the IDE or Cloud CLI and do your development work as usual. Everything should work as you expect.

If you do see something unexpected or surprising, revert back to the previous version and record the differences you observed. [Contact dbt Cloud support](/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support) with your findings for a more detailed investigation.
```

Next, we recommend that you try upgrading your project’s [deployment environment](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#environments). If your project has a [staging deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#staging-environment), upgrade and try working with it for a few days before you proceed with upgrading the production environment. 

> If your organization has multiple dbt projects, we recommend upgrading projects that are smaller, newer, or more familiar for your team to upgrade first. So, if you do encounter any issues, it'll be easier and faster to troubleshoot those before proceeding to upgrade larger or more complex projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your organization has multiple dbt projects, we recommend starting your upgrade with projects that are smaller, newer, or more familiar for your team. That way, if you do encounter any issues, it'll be easier and faster to troubleshoot those before proceeding to upgrade larger or more complex projects.
```

When we talk about _latest version_, we’re referring to the underlying runtime for dbt, not the versions of packages you’re installing. Our continuous release for dbt includes testing against several popular dbt packages. This ensures that updates we make to dbt-core, adapters, or anywhere else are compatible with the code in those packages.

If a new version of a dbt package includes a breaking change (for example, a change to one of the macros in `dbt_utils`), you don’t have to immediately use the new version. In your `packages` configuration (in `dependencies.yml` or  `packages.yml`), you can still specify which versions or version ranges of packages you want dbt to install. If you're not already doing so, we strongly recommend [checking `package-lock.yml` into version control](/reference/commands/deps#predictable-package-installs) for predictable package installs in deployment environments and a clear change history whenever you install upgrades.

If you upgrade to “Keep on latest version” and immediately see something that breaks, please [contact support](/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support) and, in the meantime, downgrade back to v1.7.

> If you’re already on “Keep on latest version” and you observe a breaking change (like something worked yesterday, but today it isn't working, or works in a surprising/different way), please [contact support](/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support) immediately. Depending on your contracted support agreement, the dbt Labs team will respond within our SLA time and we would seek to roll back the change and/or roll out a fix (just as we would for any other part of dbt Cloud). This is the same whether or not the root cause of the breaking change is in the project code or in the code of a package.

Reviewer: Hiya @nghi-ly 

Just to ask - have support / eng team said they'd roll back the change or roll out a fix? Just from working in support, I know fixes aren't always implemented and when they are, they're not always immediate.

Kind Regards
Natalie

Reviewer 2: Yes! This is part of our commitment to ensure the ongoing quality & stability of our product

If the package you’ve installed relies on _undocumented_ functionality of dbt, it doesn't have the same guarantees as functionality that we’ve documented and tested. However, we will still do our best to avoid breaking them.

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="I see that dbt Core version 1.8 was released in April 2024. Will a version 1.8 become available in dbt Cloud?" >

> No. Going forward, “Keep on latest version” will be how all customers are going to access new functionality and ongoing support for dbt in dbt Cloud. We believe this is the best way for us to offer a reliable, stable, and secure runtime for dbt with continuous and consistent updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. Going forward, “Keep on latest version” will be how all customers are going to access new functionality and ongoing support in dbt Cloud. We believe this is the best way for us to offer a reliable, stable, and secure runtime for dbt with continuous and consistent updates.
```

In 2023 (and earlier), customers were expected to manage their own upgrades by selecting dbt Core versions, up to and including dbt Core v1.7, which was released in October 2023. (Way back in 2021, dbt Cloud customers would pick specific _patch releases_ of dbt Core, such as upgrading from `v0.21.0` to `v0.21.1`. We’ve come a long way since then!)

> In 2024, we've changed the way that new dbt functionality is made available for dbt Cloud customers: continuously. Behavior or breaking changes are gated behind opt-in flags. Users don't need to spend valuable time managing their own upgrades. This is called "Keep on latest version" and it's required for accessing any new functionality that we've put out in 2024+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2024, we've changed the way that new dbt functionality is made available for dbt Cloud customers: continuously. Behavior or breaking changes are gated behind opt-in flags. Users don't need to spend valuable time managing their own upgrades. This is called "Keep on latest version" and it's required for accessing any new functionality that we've put out in 2024+.
```

We will absolutely continue to release new minor versions of dbt Core (OSS), including v1.9 which will be available later this year. When we do, it will be a subset of the functionality that's already available to dbt Cloud customers and always after the functionality has been available in dbt Cloud.

If you have comments or concerns, we’re happy to help. If you’re an existing dbt Cloud customer, you may reach out to your account team or [contact support](/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support).

> </Expandable>

Reviewer 2: The "contact support" sentence should go outside the expandable, so that viewers do not need to toggle to see it

```suggestion
</Expandable>

If you have comments or concerns, we’re happy to help. If you’re an existing dbt Cloud customer, you may reach out to your account team or [contact support](/docs/dbt-support#dbt-cloud-support).
```
